Machine Learnin Notes

Optimizations

Gradient Descent

A.Different types if G.D
1)normal/batch gradient descent
(Computationally expensice,when the data set is really really large, too slow and maybe can not put into ram)
2)mini bacth gradient descent

3)stochatistic gradient descent


B.How to tune the learning rate parameter




0)Fixed learing rate


1)Step decay
(Basically step decay means to reduce the step size by some factors every few epochs.E.g
Typical values might be reducing the learning rate by a half every 5 epochs, or by 0.1 every 20 epochs.

The gut instinct behind this is at first, when you are far away from you optimization goals. you can
move larger step, but as you are keep approximating your final destination, you have to reduce you step
size so that you do not pass by you optimization goals!
)

2)Exponential decay. 

3)1/t decay

In practice, we find that the step decay is slightly preferable because the hyperparameters it involves 
(the fraction of decay and the step timings in units of epochs) are more interpretable than the hyperparameter k. 
Lastly, if you can afford the computational budget, err on the side of slower decay and train for a longer time.


Adaptive Learning Rate Methods
The challenge of using learning rate schedules is that their hyperparameters have to be defined in advance and 
they depend heavily on the type of model and problem. Another problem is that the same learning rate is applied to all parameter updates. 
If we have sparse data, we may want to update the parameters in different extent instead.

Adaptive gradient descent algorithms such as Adagrad, Adadelta, RMSprop, Adam, provide an alternative to classical SGD. 
These per-parameter learning rate methods provide heuristic approach without requiring expensive work in 
tuning hyperparameters for the learning rate schedule manually.



Decision Tree
(Some good reference 
Regression Tree:
http://www.stat.cmu.edu/~cshalizi/350-2006/lecture-10.pdf

Id3 and C4.5:
https://cis.temple.edu/~giorgio/cis587/readings/id3-c45.html)

Gradient Boosting Decision Tree:
https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~tqchen/pdf/BoostedTree.pdf
)



A. Different types of D.T

1)ID3 D.T
2)C4.5
3)CART
4)GBDT



E. How can D.T algorithms handle continuous features?
(The basic idea of handle continupus is Discretization)
We can deal with the case of attributes with continuous ranges as follows. Say that attribute Ci has a continuous range. 
We examine the values for this attribute in the training set. Say they are, in increasing order, A1, A2, .., Am. 
Then for each value Aj, j=1,2,..m,we partition the records into those that have Ci values up to and including Aj, 
and those that have values greater than Aj.For each of these partitions we compute the gain, or gain ratio, 
and choose the partition that maximizes the gain.
