Random Variable

A random variable is actually a function that map the outcomes of a random process to a numeric value. 
For instance, let's say we have the random process of flipping a coin where the coin can only have one 
of two outcomes - head or a tail.

Probability

The probability of any outcome of a random phenomenon is the proportion of times
the outcome would occur in a very long series of repetitions.

Distribution

A probability distribution is a table or an equation that links each outcome of a 
statistical experiment with its probability of occurrence.

PMF and PDF

If a random variable X has a discrete distribution,
the probability function (abbreviated p.f.) of X is defined 
as the function f such that for every real number x,
f (x) = Pr(X = x).

Conclusion, if you are a P.F/PDF of a random variable, you can 
easily calculate its probability of something!!!!!!

CDF

Cumulative distribution function 
F (x) = Pr(X ≤ x) for −∞ <x< ∞

It should be emphasized that the cumulative distribution function is defined as above
for every random variable X, regardless of whether the distribution of X is discrete,
continuous, or mixed. 


Gaussian/Normal Distribution

. How to describe a normal distribution
N(mean,standard deviation)
where standard deviation is squared root of variance

. What is z-score
Used to denote how many standard deviations the original observation falls 
away from the mean

Equation: The z score of data poin x is 
          
       (x-mean)/standard deviation



Binomial Distribution

. The binomial setting
1. There are a fixed number n of observations.
2. The n observations are all independent. That is, knowing the result of one
observation tells you nothing about the other observations.
3. Each observation falls into one of just two categories, which for convenience
we call “success” and “failure."
4. The probability of a success, call it p, is the same for each observation.

. Binomial p.f
In the binomial distribution, what we are interested the number of successes,
so we model it as
P(X=k)=f(x|n,p)=(n choose x )p^x*(1-p)^(n-x)

. Real word exampls
(Q1)Given a fair coin, if we toss it 6 times,what's the probability there will be exactly 4 heads
This is obvious a binomial distribution, (6 choose 4)*(1/2)^4*(1/2)^2

(Q2)Given a fair coin, if we toss it 6 times,what's the probability there will be consecutive 4 heads



